---
layout: post
title: ForwardJS 5
date: 2016-08-23T11:21:40-07:00
---

#### stroopwafel

I guess those are a thing now, and the logistics of securing thousands of them
can be difficult. I'm still not entirely sure how to pronounce it.

### How Your Brain is Conspiring Against You Making Good Software

#### Jenna Zeigen

> Humans are predictably irrational
- Dan Ariely

> In general, these heuristics are quite useful, but sometimes they lead to
> severe and systematic errors.
- Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman

Jenna originally studied Cognitive Science before eventually becoming an
engineering manager. Her talk covered irrational biases that are relevant to
engineering. I joughted down ones that were new or novel to me:

* planning fallacy
* optimism bias
* dichotic listening
* stroop effect
* illuroury superiorety
* in-group favoritism
* status quo bias
* system justification

I think this talked helped remind me to be more cognizant of myself when
approaching work, especially with someone else's code. It's important to slow
down and contextualize not only what's in front of you, but where you're coming
from.

### Real-time Applications Panel

#### Guillermo Rauch, Aysegul Yonet, and Daniel Miller

This was a "self-moderated" panel that would have done well to have a proper
moderator. When they would get around to asking the good questions, ie.  "When
do you decide that realtime is required over long polling?", they wouldn't quite
answer it.

Other topics of conserideration include subscriptions and the cancelling of
subscriptions. Since I have only a vague familiarity with realtime programming,
and can only imagine the problems. The three panelists didn't seem to have a
consesus on approaching these problems, other than, it's hard and we've put a
lot of work into it.

### There’s a Bookmarklet for That!

#### Justine Lam

I had just recently learned what a bookmarklet was. In case you're unfamiliar, a
bookmarklet is a browser feature that let's you apply 2000 characters of
JavaScript to a page via a bookmark. Of course, you can use that to load
whatever you want.

Justine showed off a few novel examples, like a bookmarkelt that Harlem
Shakifies a page. And more productively, one that converts a table to a csv
file. I still only see these being useful for fun and automation.

### React, Omniscient, and Immutable: the gateway drugs of functional programming

#### Erin Depew

Interesting post-mortem for Bitly's front-end rewrite, especially given that
they chose a different stack than the most tauted one of Redux and React. In
place of Redux, they use Immstruct, which will dispatch actions when the data
store has changed. They use Omniscient to further optimize re-rendering the
React component tree. Omniscient hooks into the `shouldComponentUpdate` function
of React, and adds memoization of components.

She mentions some pain points they had. Immutable is great, but you can lose the
performance benefits if you're 'mutating' too often. They ended up working
around that by changing it to a mutable structure at the beginning of their
'reduce' cycle and then restoring to a immutable state at the end. I'm not sure
I totally understood the details.

Some of the other problems sound like they may have been ameliorated by sticking
to the Flux/Redux pattern of only mutating the data in reducers. :shrug:

### React Native: Learn from my mistakes

#### Joe Fender

Solid presentation covering the troubles of getting a mobile app onto the app
stores.

Following up later, React Native is coming to desktops.

### Inclusive Code

#### Estelle Weyl

Use HTML features. Don't use Aria. Don't use huge libraries when you don't have
to.

Estelle provides a few examples, notably a VISA login page that she rewrote. I
didn't record all the details, but what was a simple login form and footer
pulled in a lot of code and was useless from an accessibility stand point. She
re-did it with proper semantic tags, css, and a few lines of vanilla JavaScript.

She takes a bit of an extreme stance towards using front-end web technologies. I
find the example a little contrived, because it doesn't extend to a larger
project. Frameworks exist to make development faster and easier to scale.  But,
it is a good counter-point and reminder to be pragmmatic when choosing
technologies.

### Generating GIF Art with Javascript

#### Jordan Gray

Make art.

### Panel: React Application Architecture

#### Nicolas Gallagher, Devon Lindsey, Mars Jullian, Brian Holt, and Ben Alpert

Nicolas Gallagher had the most useful information detailing what his experience
at Twitter has taught him about architecting React/Redux apps.

* Use the recommended structure: actions, reducers, containers, components.
* Don't couple the data store and the UI. In case you want to change one or the
  other at some point.

There was some contention about whether it's better to start a React app slim
and add Redux later. Most recommended that you might as well start with it. If
your app is going to be of any considerable size, you might as well.
Furthermore, it's good to start with it early and be comfortable using it.

Mars Jullian had some good insight, and seemed to disagree with the rest about
the use of "non-pure" React components, or storing state in a component. A use
case to consider would be for storing UI state such as hover or focus.

### Code Trade-offs: Benefits and Drawbacks of Each Decision

#### Richard Feldman, Amy Lee, Brian Lonsdorf, Rachel Myers, and Ben Lesh

"It depends"
  - the panelists
