---
layout: post
title: "ForwardJS"
date: 2016-02-11T17:55:29-08:00
---

# Forward 4 Web Technology Summit

> FORWARD IS AN INITIATIVE TO HELP BRING THE WEB, WELL, FORWARD.

### Themes / Biases

I'm not sure how to categorize these, but these thoughts are what framed
the entire conference for me.

* _Inclusivity instead of diversity._
  This community is definitely proud of this stance. That's a good thing.

* _Cyberpunk - life imitating art?_
  Any exaggeration of the cyberpunk aesthetic you can imagine will happen.

* _Why do we want JavaScript everywhere?_
  I was under the impression that this quirky language was so widespread
simply because there's no alternative. So why do we keep putting in
spaces where there are alternatives? 

* _The JS community struggles to learn from history._
  Many of the struggles mentioned have happened before. My buddy Andrew
pointed out that those might be ongoing lessons.

### Favorite Quotes

* Why did we do it that way? Unix did it.
* Don't let your friends build auth

## Embedded JS: Advances in NodeBots and the Future
KASSANDRA PERCH

The NodeBots community and ecosystem is thriving and at this point you
can get small, ~ $20 [microcontrollers](https://store.particle.io/) that
can run C generated by Node.js, or an [SoC](http://www.espruino.com/)
that runs Node.js natively.

I have little interest in embedded nodejs, so I didn't put a lot of
effort into retaining any of this talk. But, Kassandra Perch did have a
neat tech demo, where you could tweet to an account to push a color
value to a queue that would display on her sweater or belt.

The NodeBots community thrives because it is so inclusive and welcoming. 

## Keynote
DOUGLAS CROCKFORD

#### The Seif Project

For me, this was the most intriguing talk. It's always joked about how
broken web technologies are, kluge on top of kluge. Douglas Crockford
recognizes that there have been attempts to fix them. I believe he was
referring to technologies like Flash and Silverlight. He then looked to
a previous technological leap of something widely adopted: analog to
digital TV.

The main difference between the approaches used had been who the focus
for adoption was. Web technologies are always marketed to the developer,
if you can get enough developers making enough stuff, then the consumers
will catch on. In the case of switching from analog to digital, the
government ensured that the consumer was the focus. Broadcasters and
producers had to foot the bill of upgrading equipment. Consumers were
given free to cheap boxes and it was ensured that when the analog
signals stopped, nobody would notice.

#### Plan for Adoption

1. Get one browser to ship his new helper app extension
2. Get one security minded business, ie a bank, to adopt the new protocol
and browser extension, and in turn force their customers to use it
3. Other businesses will want the added security benefit
4. Other Browsers will be forced to begin shipping the new extension

He intends to keep the protocol and rendering engine small with the
hopes of reducing security flaws. As well, he's not bound by a release
schedule so it can be released when it is ready.

## "re.flow",­ an interactive digital work by Jason Marsh
JASON MARSH

It was a tech demo of Dolby's new web audio codec that can process 3
dimensional sound sources. Jason March put together a sound sequencer
and a very 80's style techno-porn.  Each node on the sequencer
corresponded to a shader that would move in sync with it's corresponding
sound source.

In hindsight, I probably would have traded a few talks to hear more
about ES6, ES7, and React.

## Algorithmic Art and JavaScript
COLE WILLSEA

For the first half, Cole Willsea presented algorithms that either
created or were themselves an art piece. If you write an algorithm for
creating a piece, which part is the artwork?  Some notable names using
algorithmic art: Sol Lewitt, John Cage, and Brian Gyson.

The second half was a series of twitter bots mostly written by them. One
was would record all the emojis tweeted in SF in the last hour and tweet
a basic emoji graph. I hadn't heard of @everyword, but someone wrote a
bot to tweet every word in the dictionary. Of course, there is now an
@everyjs, set in motion to name every JS library before it happens.

## Functional Programming Panel
BRIAN LONSDORF -
PHIL FREEMAN -
EVAN CZAPLICKI -
LEE BYRON -
MARSHALL UPSHUR

This panel was made up of prominent functional JavaScript developers,
but I only recognized the tech used, and even then, only with a
familiarity: Elm, ClojureScript, Immutable.js, PureScript etc. They
spent only a small portion talking about what separates functional
programming from other paradigms, so I'm still left wondering what the
hell a monad is and what they're for. But of course, they all 'get' it.

The usually reasons for choosing functional languages were listed as
simplicity, composability, and immutability. Along with a powerful type
system, these make it easy to reason or even prove the correctness of
your program. It is mentioned that React shares similar principles and
it's success can be attributed to those.

Mostly, the subject kept getting back to where functional programming
will fit into the web and their experience with fitting it in. In a
professional setting, the road to change is through small incremental
steps. But, for personally development, there can be choices. Do you
instead immerse yourself in something new? That can be daunting, but
there's always communities to help.

#### Other thoughts

* JavaScript is always going to be a target language, by virtue of it
having to be everything to everyone.

* JS culture seems to be one where everyone takes things and remakes it
as their own. This is good for learning and including people, but it
also contributes to the fragmentation.

## Soylent Bits
MYLES BORINS

#### Things People Hate

* languages
* frameworks
* each other
* women
* minorities

Myles Borin is an active contributer to Node.js and gave a retrospective
on a recent organizational debacle. I believe I heard a whiff of this on
HN and reddit, but it had a dramatic impact on this guys life.

IIRC he started a Github issue to discuss removing the term 'suicide'
from Node's workers. This brought the trolls out from under the bridge.
At the time, Node had a code of conduct, but lacked any rules of
moderation. That is to say, they had no way to enforce it. So, while
people are trolling on one thread, there's another thread with the Node
maintainers disagreeing about what to do about it. 

I failed to record all his lessons learned about managing an open source
community, but the moral of the story is:

Your code is made of people. 

## The New 'Desktop': Electron, React, and Pixel-Perfect Native-Feeling Experiences
EVAN MORIKAWA

I spent this entire talk wondering why you would write desktop apps with
web tools. The answers are of course about it being cross-platform. But,
I'm still not convinced.

Electron is essentially a version of chromium that uses Node.js as the
JS engine. This gives you access to all the local-filesystem API's.
Evan's company wrote a native feeling e-mail client with it. It uses
sqlite to handle offline caching of your e-mail actions. They used
existing frameworks to mimic the normal desktop styling. So all it takes
to switch between looking like Windows or OS X is changing a class on
the body element.

## Build the Virtual Reality Web with A-Frame
KEVIN NGO

mozvr appears to be mozilla's contribution to VR. A few of the
developers on the project were there and they seem to be taking a rushed
but waiting approach. They've built a library that wraps around WebVR.
With a few markup tags, you can render textured primitive shapes in a 3D
environment. They use an entity-component system. Entities would be
physical objects with no other attributes and can have any number of
components mixed in.

With headsets about to come to market and the entire tech so new, these
guys don't want to commit to any large design decisions until the
ecosystem evolves. mozvr abstracts away webgl and VR programming with
the goal of making VR appealing to web developers.

## The Economy of Keystrokes
KYLE SIMPSON

Having now seen Kyle Simpson twice, I highly recommend attending a talk
by him. His points are simple, because he presents them clearly. He
speaks well and there is very little wasted.

However, the content of his talk wasn't about anything new. What he did
do was explore what readability means. Code that is easily readable is
familiar and idiomatic. When trying to balance levels of abstraction,
code shouldn't require a manual to understand and it shouldn't be
surprising. It should be easily teachable.

#### Concepts

* What does each keystroke, or lack of keystroke, buy you? 
* Code is a suggestion to the computer
* Code is a means of communication
* Good programmers write code that humans can understand

In terms of a who's important to an application, users come first:

* users > author > ...

Analagously them, for written code, the consumer of it comes first:

* reader > writer
