---
layout: post
title: "First Post"
---

Writing a first post has always been a mental block for starting a blog.
The best thing would be to have a placeholder: "Hello, World!", or `git
commit -am 'initial commit'`. However, I did do a little bike trip
recently and that's probably worth recording.

Samuel P. Taylor
##

I was originally inspired to do this route from a post on
r/bicycling_touring. Of course I can't find it anymore.

Day 1
###

https://goo.gl/IUWhls

Riding from Embarcadero to the Golden Gate reminds me why I should be
living in the city. It's better than wherever you're living now.

Sausalito would be disappointing if not for it's unique view of the bay.
On that day, the winter sun lit up a thin layer of clouds and all you
could see of the bay were the cloud's silvery relfection. After enjoying
that for a bit, I went to a cafe, Cibo, for toast and coffee. It was
great.

From Sausalito you follow bike baths through towns and residential
areas. I stopped in Fairfax to get a beer and some things for dinner.
Just after that is the one hard climb for the day. After that, you can
mostly roll the rest of the way to Samuel P. Taylor. You can get onto an
easy enough dirt and gravel trail for the last ~3 miles. I can't
remember what it's called, maybe the Marin Headlands Connector?

The rest of the day was spent reading by the creek and eating my most
recently favorited camping meal, sardines in ramen.

Day 2
###

https://goo.gl/xJseP5

I opted to take Highway 1 back into SF. It's all rolling hills, and in
this season, they're lush and green. That day did prove to be much
harder, I was unexpectedly tired midway through. One of the tougher
hills almost defeated my spirit. But, shortly after, you're rewarded
with a flat ride around Bolinas Lagoon.

For lunch, I had a burrito and beer on Stinson Beach and spent some time
relaxing on a piece of driftwood. Also great.

Maybe it was the burrito, or the beer, or maybe I'm just not strong
enough, but the climb back over to the bay destroyed me. I had to stop
twice and rest. As with all hills, bombing down the other side makes it
all worth it.
